#summary How to communicate with drupal

= Distinction (case sensitive terms) =

SabreAMF - is the php5 amf framework
sabreamf - is the drupal module

= What is it? =

Drupal [http://www.drupal.org] is a well known opensource CMS(content management system). This module allows a way to communication between drupal and flash/flex clients through amf protocol.

= How sabreamf drupal module does all this =

sabreamf module was greatly inspired by an existing drupal module that offered the same kind of functionality but that was ignored for a long period of time.

sabreamf module needs Drupal Services[http://drupal.org/project/Services] module to be installed and enabled.

= How to check if the gateway is working =

If you installed drupal 6 on your localhost (wamp, lampp server), then you can login as administrator user and point your browser to gateway [http://localhost/drupal/services/sabreamf] url.
If all goes well, you will see a black screen with a nice SabreAMF+Drupal logo in the middle(another ideea inspired by RubyAMF's [http://code.google.com/p/rubyamf] screen non amf clients attempting connection)

It is recommended that you read all the txt files comming with this module, as you would find useful information

= LICENCE =

Drupal comes with a GPL licence, where SabreAMF has its own licence, try to contact the people behind SabreAMF framework for their support if your commercial projects requires draconic licence measures.
The drupal sabreamf module comes with a non restrictive licence, also known as WTFPL [http://sam.zoy.org/wtfpl/], even if the terms are using bad english, you get the picture, there are 0(zero) restrictions on this code or derivates.

